Dogs are capable of understanding up to 250 words and gestures, can count up to five and can perform simple mathematical calculations. The average dog is as intelligent as a two-year-old child.

Some stray Russian dogs have figured out how to use the subway system in order to travel to more populated areas in search of food.

Dogs don’t enjoy being hugged as much as humans and other primates. Canines interpret putting a limb over another animal as a sign of dominance.

The Beatles song “A day in the Life” has an extra high-pitched whistle, audible only to dogs. It was recorded by Paul McCartney for the enjoyment of his Shetland sheepdog.

Service dogs are trained to know when they are on duty. When their harness is on, they know it’s business time. When you take it off, the pups immediately become playful and energetic

Tiger Woods stuttered as a child and used to talk to his dog until he fell asleep in an effort to get rid of it.

Seeing eye dogs pee and poo on command so that their owners can clean up after them. (The command is usually “Get busy!” and pups will pace back and forth until they do their business.) Male dogs are also trained to do their business without lifting their leg.

In ancient China, an emperor’s last line of defense was a small Pekingese dog literally hidden up his sleeve.

When Lord Byron was informed that his dog was not allowed to come with him to Cambridge Trinity College, he retaliated by bringing a bear instead.

The wetness of a dog’s nose is essential for determining what direction a smell is coming from.

Hyenas aren’t actually dogs. They are more closely related to cats.

Spiked dog collars were invented in ancient Greece and were originally designed to protect dogs throats from wolf attacks.

Dogs drink water by using forming the back of their tongue into a mini cup. ***UPDATED*** A recent study just debunked this fact! Dogs actually use the top of their tongue to drink. Water adheres to the top of the tongue and is pulled up in a column.


source:

http://barkpost.com/fascinating-facts-about-dogs/